   NextShark Company Info  


 Trending News  


                         The Latest            Original ‘Squid Game’ doll can be found at a museum in South Korea — but not for long    September 30, 2021 Total856Shares“Squid Game” may be the No. 1 show on Netflix, but it’s a giant animatronic doll that appeared in the first episode that has kept fans of the K-drama up at night.

“Red light, green light”: It turns out that the creepy doll can be found at a horse carriage museum and park just a few hours outside of Seoul in Chungcheongbok-do, South Korea.

Viral success: “Squid Game” has generated several TikTok videos and amassed billions of views, with many parodying the games from the show. AdvertisementGet on my level please &#x1f62d;&#x270b;&#x1f3fb;&#x270b;&#x1f3fb;

My next few posts are gonna about the swuid game BECAUSE IT WAS SUCH A GOOD SHOW

(To view the pictures, click on the   to look through the social media platform.)

Better play by the rules because she&#8217;s always watching. Will you make it past the first round of Squid Game? &#x1f991;

— Netflix Philippines (@Netflix_PH)

Featured Image via    (left),    (right) Support our Journalism with a Contribution Many people might not know this, but despite our large and loyal following which we are immensely grateful for, NextShark is still a small bootstrapped startup that runs on no outside funding or loans.

 Everything you see today is built on the backs of warriors who have sacrificed opportunities to help give Asians all over the world a bigger voice.

 However, we still face many trials and tribulations in our industry, from figuring out the most sustainable business model for independent media companies to facing the current COVID-19 pandemic decimating advertising revenues across the board.

We hope you consider making a contribution so we can continue to provide you with quality content that informs, educates and inspires the Asian community. Even a $1 contribution goes a long way.  Thank you for everyone’s support. We love you all and can’t appreciate you guys enough.



 Total856SharesSubscribe to Shark Bites, its free! Your top weekly AAPI news, in 5-minute snack format  Subscribe By checking this box, you confirm that you have read and are agreeing to our terms of use regarding the storage of the data submitted through this form.  · January 13, 2020 Related Posts    Read More    Read More    Read More    Read More  Shark Bites: Your weekly dose of Asian America and the world in under 5 minutes! Get regular updates from our talented staff on the latest and greatest in the Asian American community  Subscribe By checking this box, you confirm that you have read and are agreeing to our terms of use regarding the storage of the data submitted through this form.  © NextShark INC. 2018. All Rights Reserved.    