  Skip to content         NewsUSA Canada Catholic Abortion Faith Family Today&#8217;s News Last 10 Days    OpinionUSA Canada Catholic Today&#8217;s Opinion Editorials    BlogsJohn-Henry Westen Steve Jalsevac Doug Mainwaring Jonathon Van Maren Dorothy Cummings McLean Maike Hickson Peter Kwasniewski Steven Mosher Stephen Kokx    ShowsThe John-Henry Westen Show The Van Maren Show Mother Miriam Live The Bishop Strickland Show Ladies of LifeSite VideoVideo Home Latest Videos Shows     Follow LifeSite      &nbsp;Subscribe       &nbsp;Telegram       &nbsp;Gab       &nbsp;Rumble       &nbsp;MeWe        Resources     LifeFacts     LifePetitions     LifeFunder     Voter Voice        LifeSiteAbout Subscribe Advertise Reprint Permissions Privacy Legal Technical Support Contact Donate      USA     USA Canada Catholic             Subscribe Read Watch Donate                News  Delta Airlines pilot dies mid-flight days after vaccination: report  A flight attendant reportedly said that earlier this month a recently vaccinated pilot flying out of Los Angeles died during a commercial flight, leading the co-pilot to make an emergency landing.    Delta Airlines planes Shutterstock   
      Jack
Bingham                                                               Jack Bingham     Comments&nbsp;          Thu Oct 14, 2021 - 11:35 am EDTThu Oct 14, 2021 - 11:36 am EDT

(LifeSiteNews) — A recently vaccinated pilot died during a flight, causing the co-pilot to make an emergency landing, a Delta Airlines flight attendant present for the incident said according to Dr. Jane Ruby, a former drug development expert at the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).

In an October 11 video broadcast of the Stew Peters Show, Ruby told viewers that a Delta Airlines flight attendant along with two separate whistleblowers said that earlier this month a recently vaccinated pilot flying out of Los Angeles died during a commercial flight, leading the co-pilot to make an emergency landing.

“A pilot died in-flight within the last … 10 days, according to these sources,” revealed Ruby. “The co-pilot told the flight attendant that the captain was speaking normally one moment, then … said a few weird things, then died,” she continued. “The flight had to make an emergency landing.”

Without revealing the identities of the whistleblowers, Ruby affirmed she had “vetted” the sources and confirmed their claims. She said her three sources are a Delta Airlines pilot, a Delta Airlines flight attendant who witnessed the event, and a relative of a Delta Airlines employee.

Continuing in her explanation of the events reported to her by the whistleblowing attendant, the deceased pilot was “an LAX based Captain” and the “plane was landed safely” but she is uncertain what explanation, if any, the passengers were given as to why their flight was diverted.

According to Ruby, the flight attendant was told by the co-pilot that the now-deceased captain had “completed his second shot” just “several days prior” to the tragic event.  &mdash; Article continues below Petition &mdash;   PETITION: Resist Bidens Vaccine Mandate  &nbsp; Show Petition Text       25020  have signed the petition.Lets get to 30000 !          Thank you for signing this petition!    Add your signature: &nbsp; Show Petition Text       Country...       State...        Keep me updated via email on this petition and related issues.     Sign this Petition                     Country...   State...       Sign this Petition         Keep me updated via email on this petition and related issues.         It&#39;s official: Joe Biden has announced that his Administration will be forcing COVID vaccinations on nearly 1/3rd of American citizens, blatantly disregarding the personal objections of millions of people and moving America ever closer towards a medical dictatorship.

We cannot stand for this unprecedented overreach, and we will not submit to Biden&#39;s tyrannical public coercion efforts.

Please SIGN this urgent petition informing the President that you will NOT comply with these unconstitutional vaccine mandate orders issued by the Biden Administration, and that elected officials should act in their capacity to block these intrusive demands.

On Thursday, September 9th, Joe Biden announced the latest round of federal orders meant to further coerce large swaths of the public into getting the COVID&nbsp;vaccine -- many against their will.

While the legal standing of these measures is, at best, dubious, the Biden Administration appears more ready than ever to gut our individual rights and practically erase medical autonomy in our country.

This latest escalation in overreach was announced via a televised speech in which Biden outlined a new &quot;six-point plan&quot; that includes far more than just six avenues to achieve mass medical compliance.

Among the most egregious new federal mandates are the following:  A requirement that all private businesses employing more than 100 people mandate their workers get the Covid-19 vaccine or submit to weekly testing (to be implemented by way of a new Department of Labor rule) A requirement that all federal employees and federal contractors get the COVID&nbsp;vaccine A requirement that all healthcare workers in facilities that receive reimbursement from Medicare and/or Medicaid (an estimated 17 million) get the Covid-19 vaccine without an alternative testing option A requirement that all Head Start teachers get the COVID&nbsp;vaccine A federal effort to lobby states to implement vaccine mandates for all school employees, and require regular testing of all students and school staff A federal effort to lobby entertainment venues to require proof of vaccination or testing in order to grant entry to the public A continuation of mask mandates on all federal properties and during interstate travel (i.e. planes, trains, buses)

All in all, these new vaccine mandates, which will go into effect within the coming weeks, will affect an estimated 100 million American workers -- 2/3rds of the entire workforce!

And, according to an administration official, violations of these unconstitutional requirements could result in fines of up to $14,000.

While this is clearly a political ploy on the part of the Joe Biden and his team of power-hungry Washington insiders to shift the focus from their disastrous withdrawal from Afghanistan, the American public knows better: After nearly a year and a half&#39;s worth of arbitrary, ever-changing, and unconstitutional government mandates in response to the COVID outbreak, it was always a given that the Biden Administration would ramp things up even further when it behooved them.

And now, it would seem that time has officially come.

&quot;This is not about freedom or personal choice,&quot; Biden uttered in his remarks, confirming his administration&#39;s blatant dismissal of all Americans&#39; right(s) to accept or decline the experimental Covid-19 vaccine.

This is a stunning reversal from Biden&#39;s declaration last December that &quot;I don&rsquo;t think [the vaccine] should be mandatory, I wouldn&rsquo;t demand it to be mandatory.&quot;

In fact, Biden even confirmed his intention to flout states&#39; rights in the process, warning that &quot;If these governors won&rsquo;t help us beat the pandemic I&rsquo;ll use my power as president to get them out of the way.&quot;

These are not the words of an &quot;empathetic&quot;&nbsp;leader; these are the words of an aspiring dictator. And, for the time being, the only way to stop Joe Biden&#39;s tyranny is through mass noncompliance.

As we&#39;ve said from the beginning, science, basic logic, and common sense should dictate policy regarding COVID&nbsp;and the Delta variant.

But Joe Biden and the federal government have long abandoned those principles throughout this crisis, culminating into this disturbing yet inevitable flurry of intrusive vaccine mandates that use people&#39;s jobs, individual autonomy, and livelihood as leverage.

This assault on our individual rights, private businesses, and American workers cannot be tolerated, and the easiest way to combat these unlawful orders is to just say NO.

Please SIGN and SHARE this most important petition letting Joe Biden know that you will NOT comply with the unconstitutional medical demands being made by this administration, and that action should be taken to block any intrusive action against working Americans and private employers.

Thank you!
 
 FOR MORE INFORMATION:
 
 &#39;Biden announces vaccine requirements for private businesses, impacting tens of millions of Americans&#39;: https://www.lifesitenews.com/news/breaking-biden-announces-vaccine-requirements-for-private-businesses-impacting-tens-of-millions-of-workers/     &nbsp; Hide Petition Text   Sign this Petition

Delta Airlines has since come out denying the incident ever took place, and according to USA TODAY stated that “the coronavirus vaccines do not cause death.”

Contrasting Delta’s claim that the “vaccines do not cause death” is the European Union’s official data, the World Health Organization&#8217;s data (WHO), and the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) database co-run by the FDA and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

The WHO’s database lists 2.1 million adverse effect reports related to the injections, while the European Union’s data shows over 2 million injuries and at least 21,000 deaths in EU countries alone.

VAERS in America currently reports a whopping 16,000 dead Americans, with the sworn testimony of whistleblowers claiming VAERS suffers from severe underreporting and the more accurate number is a “conservative estimate” of 45,000 deaths.

Ruby added that this is just one of many suspicious events that has occurred since vaccine mandates for airlines have become almost ubiquitous, alleging that the mid-flight death is not an anomaly, but part of a larger crisis that is “much bigger than people think.”

Ruby mentioned a Seattle-based pilot who was found dead from an embolism, two Atlanta-based flight attendants were found dead in their homes, one Salt Lake City pilot who suffered a breakthrough infection and died of kidney failure after being put on remdesivir, and a 47-year-old Salt Lake City flight attendant “base manager” who died suddenly.

Although Delta Airlines has not explicitly mandated the vaccine, the company did announce a vaccination program that requires unvaccinated employees to pay a $200 monthly surcharge if they are covered by the company’s healthcare plan. This plan has led to a reported vaccination rate of over 90 percent companywide.

The institution of mandatory or coercive COVID-19 injection policies in the workplace has been a cause for concern in the medical community and the legal community alike.

Just last month, Dr. Peter McCullough along with more than two dozen top doctors and scientists, filed a lawsuit against the FDA to obtain the “data and information” the agency used to approve the use of the Pfizer shot despite the widespread concerns surrounding their safety and efficacy.

Lawyer Aaron Siri penned an article outlining the necessity of the lawsuit in light of the increased prevalence of vaccine mandates and vaccine coercion policies nationwide.

“Transparency demands the FDA immediately disclose the data it relied upon to license the Pfizer vaccine. Not tomorrow. Today,” wrote the lawyer. “Scientists, health care professionals, and every person in this country, especially those mandated to receive this product, should have access to the data now.”

“The CDC and FDA hold all the data. You don’t. They hold all the data. Where’s the report card? They work for us. Demand it,” said Dr. McCullough, a world-renowned cardiologist and expert on the early treatment of COVID-19. “Every time you’re confronted with this, ‘Oh, my employer wants me to take a vaccine.’ [Ask] ‘Where’s the report card from the CDC and FDA?’ Demand a report card. Until we get transparency of data, this thing is not going to be corrected.”    Topics   Politics - U.S.     Tagged as   Coronavirus VaccineCoronavirus Vaccine DeathsDelta AirlinesVaccine Side Effects      Share                                                        Keep this news available to you and millions more Your gift will spread truth, defeat lies, and save lives  $    &nbsp;Donate Now      Editor&#8217;s Must ReadsMark Zuckerberg ‘bought’ 2020 election for Biden with ‘staggering’ funding, new analysis suggestsUndercover video catches Pfizer scientist saying COVID shot &#8216;doesn&#8217;t work&#8217; sometimesPro-life woman conceived in rape explains why she’s running for US SenateIs it true that ivermectin and hydroxychloroquine are abortion-tainted just like COVID jabs?Subscribe to Daily Headlines&nbsp;&raquo;                                                                       Comments  Commenting Guidelines

LifeSiteNews welcomes thoughtful, respectful comments that add useful information or insights. Demeaning, hostile or propagandistic comments, and streams not related to the storyline, will be removed.

LSN commenting is not for frequent personal blogging, on-going debates or theological or other disputes between commenters.

Multiple comments from one person under a story are discouraged (suggested maximum of three). Capitalized sentences or comments will be removed (Internet shouting).

LifeSiteNews gives priority to pro-life, pro-family commenters and reserves the right to edit or remove comments.

Comments under LifeSiteNews stories do not necessarily represent the views of LifeSiteNews.              News Opinion Blogs Podcasts Video LifeFacts LifePetitions Voter Voice  
 About Subscribe Advertise Reprint Permissions Privacy Legal Technical Support Contact Donate       &nbsp;Subscribe       &nbsp;Telegram       &nbsp;Gab       &nbsp;Rumble       &nbsp;MeWe    

 &copy;  1997-2021 LifeSiteNews.com. 
All Rights Reserved.  Legal Information     NewsUSA Canada Catholic Abortion Faith Family Today&#8217;s News Last 10 Days    OpinionUSA Canada Catholic Today&#8217;s Opinion Editorials    BlogsJohn-Henry Westen Steve Jalsevac Doug Mainwaring Jonathon Van Maren Dorothy Cummings McLean Maike Hickson Peter Kwasniewski Steven Mosher Stephen Kokx    ShowsThe John-Henry Westen Show The Van Maren Show Mother Miriam Live The Bishop Strickland Show Ladies of LifeSite VideoVideo Home Latest Videos Shows    About Subscribe Advertise Reprint Permissions Privacy Legal Technical Support Contact Donate 

 &copy;  1997-2021 LifeSiteNews.com. 
All Rights Reserved.                                                       