    

  	 		   	 	Sunday 7 November, 2021	    	 		 	 	 	 		 	    			 			 							 					 						  				 					 				    			    			  					 			 			 			 			 			  						  	 		   </a> 				 				Stock photo from Facebook				    Tokyo

The head of the Tokyo Medical Association appeared on national television in September urging doctors to use Ivermectin and they listened. A little over a month later, Covid-19 is under control in Japan.    	

Published: November 3, 2021, 4:21 pm 			   Read more Dr. Haruo Ozaki, chairman of the Tokyo Metropolitan Medical Association had held an emergency press conference on August 13, announcing some 18000 new infections daily. However, the death count has eased as compared to previous surges. In an interview with the The Yomiuri Shimbun on August 5, Ozaki spoke in detail about his opinion that Ivermectin should be used in Japan and said that his early calls for usage had seemingly not been heeded.

Japan had slavishly adhered to all the Big Pharma prescriptions, including quarantine, contact tracing, masking, social distance, but finally the pandemic had hit them hard after they started aggressive vaccination in May 2021. The results looked good initially, but in mid July they started rising again and on August 6 cases hit a new all time high and continued to rise.

Ivermectin was allowed as a treatment on August 13 and after 2 weeks the cases started to . In fact, they are now down 99 percent from the peak.

Since April 28, India medical officials started providing hydroxychloroquine and Ivermectin to its massive population. As India is the major pharmaceutical manufacturer in the world, they are naturally geared for mass drug distribution.

Much like the state of Uttar Pradesh in India, parts of Bangladesh, and places like Argentina and Mexico, Ozaki had called for the immediate release of Ivermectin in Japan. Ivermectin is legal in Japan

In Japan, doctors can now prescribe it without restrictions, and people can buy it legally from India. Japan is a country where 72,5 percent of the inhabitants are fully vaccinated.

The Japanese have meanwhile not bought into the notion of a third booster shot. Instead four local companies are currently carrying out clinical trials, but only one – Daiichi Sankyo – is developing a type of mRNA shot. Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, which are currently the most commonly used in Japan, have many side effects, such as fevers and pain, according to national daily Mainichi.

They are also tricky to handle due to the need to store them at freezing temperatures and the nature of each vial containing multiple doses. A Shionogi official says the firm is working on a domestic product which will be able to be stored in a fridge, with one vial used per person.

Hydroxychloroquine and Ivermectin were both FDA-approved to treat or prevent malaria and parasitic ailments. Hydroxychloroquine is also approved to treat autoimmune conditions such as chronic discoid lupus erythematosus, systemic lupus erythematosus in adults, and rheumatoid arthritis.

Both Ivermectin and hydroxychloroquine have been prescribed for years with . Notably, FDA-approved products may legally be prescribed by physicians for other uses, including for Covid-19 when deemed appropriate.

A source close to the Japanese government emphasized: &#8220;Coronavirus vaccines still have much room for improvement, and it is possible there could be domestic ones with better qualities.&#8221; Japan withdrew Moderna jabs after  were found in these vaccines. Three lots of Moderna vaccines were recalled in Japan for metal contamination, according to a report from RT. Evidence from Africa

Dr. Ozaki has cited evidence from African nations that have utilized Ivermectin to treat Covid-19. He stated: “In Africa, if we compare countries distributing Ivermectin once a year with countries who do not give Ivermectin… they don’t give Ivermectin to prevent Covid but to prevent parasitic disease… if we look at Covid numbers in countries that give Ivermectin, the number of cases is 134.4/100,000 and the number of deaths is 2.2/100 000.”

Only 2,5 percent of Africans have had two shots, while rich countries have locked down enough vaccines to immunize their populations twice or three times over and now are authorizing booster shots. Japan has suffered fewer than 16 000 deaths so far, the lowest rate among the G-7 countries — and nearly one-14th the deaths per capita of its G-7 partners.

Japan’s cumulative Covid numbers, especially their mortality rates, have been significantly lower than most EU countries or the US. But it is much more likely due to some combination of  that also helps lower severe outcomes as well as Ivermectin.

All rights reserved. You have permission to quote freely from the articles provided that the source (www.freewestmedia.com) is given. Photos may not be used without our consent.  

 	       	Consider donating to support our work

Help us to produce more articles like this. FreeWestMedia is depending on donations from our readers to keep going. With your help, we expose the mainstream fake news agenda. 	  	         Keep ​your language polite​. Readers from many different countries visit and contribute to Free West Media and we must therefore obey the rules in​,​ for example​, ​Germany. Illegal content will be deleted.

If you have been approved to post comments without preview from FWM, you are responsible for violation​s​ of​ any​ law. This means that FWM may be forced to cooperate with authorities in a possible crime investigation.

If your comments are subject to preview ​by FWM, please be patient. We continually review comments but depending on the time of day it can take up to several hours before your comment is reviewed.

We reserve the right to del​ete​ comments that are offensive, contain slander or foul language, or are irrelevant to the discussion.                                                     Asia

 		       	 		 	         Search 	 	 	     	          	         	    	 	             	 	  	 		  						 							  

 Editorial staff
 contact[at]freewestmedia.com    </a>

&copy; 2021 . All rights reserved.    		 	       