       Close   Home News Sports Business Community Obituaries Records Opinion Entertainment Events Your Stories History Photos & Video Blogs Todays Headlines Weather Sponsored Content Homes semo.jobs SemoSearch Classifieds Coronavirus news     Contact Us Gift Subscription Customer Service E-Edition / Online Reader Email Newsletter Signup Birthday Club Text Alerts rustmedia Media Partners Site Index        Close          Stories Blogs Comments Photos Events Classifieds Local Ads Real Estate Jobs Everything Archive since 1918         Close  Submit:  Story or photos Letter to the Editor Paid Election Letter Speak Out comment Event Wedding Engagement Anniversary Birth Delisting request Classified ad         Menu Search Submit   LoginRegisterSubscribe        Menu Search Submit Newsletters E-Edition Index   LoginRegisterSubscribe          Home News Sports Business Events Community Records Obituaries Opinion Classifieds SemoSearch semo.jobs                          Print Email link Send news tip Report error  Read comments (14)                   GasBuddy reports gas price volatility continues with local per gallon prices around $3     By Jeff Long ~ Southeast Missourian Monday, October 25, 2021   Kim Ziegler of Kelso, Missouri, fills up her gas tank at a Rhodes 101 gas station on Independence Street on Sept. 17, 2019, in Cape Girardeau.Southeast Missourian file

According to the most recent data from GasBuddy, a tech firm monitoring real-time gasoline prices in the United States, Canada and Australia, the average U.S. price for a gallon of regular unleaded gas increased 2.9 cents from a week ago to $3.30. Gas is $1.09 more expensive than at this time in 2020.

In GasBuddys spot check of service stations in Cape Girardeau, Jackson and Scott City on Friday, prices ranged from $2.94 to $3.09.

The national price of diesel went up 7.8 cents in the past week to $3.53 per gallon.

"The national average closed the week by climbing to yet another fresh seven-year high, as the price of oil continues to drag gas prices along for a wild ride," said Patrick DeHaan, head of petroleum analysis for GasBuddy.

"With OPEC holding back oil production and with strong global oil demand, the situation will no doubt pave the road with even higher gas prices in the weeks ahead," DeHaan added. "Unless several bottlenecks ease, including supply chains and low global inventories of oil, natural gas and coal, well be stuck feeling the pinch of rising oil and gasoline prices. The bad news is that for now, all I see is the upward trend at the pump continuing into the weeks ahead with no sign of relief just yet."

Looking for more business news? Check out B Magazine, and the B Magazine email newsletter. Go to www.semissourian.com/newsletters to find out more.           News about Cape and Jackson matters. Sign up for free updates.                     Print Email link Send news tip Report error          Comments   View 14 comments or respond   Community discussion is important, and we encourage you to participate as a reader and commenter. Click here to see our Guidelines. We also encourage registered users to let us know if they see something inappropriate on our site. You can do that by clicking "Report Comment" below. Our goal is to create a place for robust and civil discourse about our community, state and nation.OPEC+ sees no need to meet U.S. call for more supply, sources say

LONDON, Aug 16 (Reuters) - OPEC and its allies, including Russia, believe oil markets do not need more oil than they plan to release in the coming months, despite U.S. pressure to add supplies to check an oil price rise, four sources told Reuters.

The price of international benchmark Brent crude has risen 35% this year towards $70 a barrel, driven by economic recovery from the pandemic and supply restraint by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its partners in the alliance known as OPEC+.

https://www.reuters.com/business/energy/opec-sees-no-need-speed-up-oil-cuts-easi...  -- Posted by Diseased.  . Turtle on Sun, Oct 24, 2021, at  8:12 PM  

Lets go Brandon!!  -- Posted by Olpapy on Sun, Oct 24, 2021, at 10:12 PM  

Lets go Donald !!  DJT  -- Posted by Michael Masterson on Sun, Oct 24, 2021, at 10:33 PM  Gas prices were lower last year , COVID had the entire Nation shut down, nobody was traveling , folks were working at home . The use of gas went way down and so did the price . gas stations were being as competitive as they could to get customers . Now the Nation is moving again the gas prices have shot up , everybody needs gas , gas stations can charge whatever they want . Its happening this way across the board, stores are charging whatever they want too . It wouldnt matter which political Party or who was the President , it was inevitable to happen .

It is what it is .  -- Posted by Diseased.  . Turtle on Mon, Oct 25, 2021, at  7:17 AM  and supply restraint by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its partners in the alliance known as OPEC+. -- Posted by Diseased. . Turtle on Sun, Oct 24, 2021, at 8:12 PM

The old OPEC game of "constraint" is back in business thanks to Bidens cancelling of drilling permits and limiting oil exploration and development in the US.

Trump opened it up and - FACT - for the first time in decades the US was able to supply all the oil it needed to itself.

Now the democrats can defend Biden all they want and call Trump "orange man" to make them feel better.  Its all they have.  Wont change "the facts".  -- Posted by not_sorry on Mon, Oct 25, 2021, at  8:44 AM  What in the world does the color Orange have to do with anything ?

Fact , the oil refinery in the Southeast of the US of A was hacked and shut down . There was a major pipe line bust off the Coast of California , there was also a major pipe line bust in the Carolinas . The Keystone pipeline was shut down by the Supreme Court , Canadian Unions went on strike and shut it down in Canada too .  The US of A has always depended on OPEC , another fact . A tanker oiler jammed up the Suez Canal for a week . These arent excuses  , they are facts . They would have happened no matter who was the President or what political Party -- no color of the rainbow would have made a difference .

The political blame game must go on , it can not stop , it will not stop .   -- Posted by Diseased.  . Turtle on Mon, Oct 25, 2021, at  8:59 AM  Sorry DT... your "facts" dont add up:

"In 2019, after 62 years, the United States achieved energy independence, meaning that as a nation we produced more energy than we consumed. In 2019, the United States produced more oil and more natural gas than either Russia or Saudi Arabia. In fact, in June 2020, the U.S. actually exported oil to Saudi Arabia."  -- Posted by not_sorry on Mon, Oct 25, 2021, at  9:15 AM  So the oil leaks and stuff didnt happen , aye ? And the color Orange is very important because ? Of course the US of A became oil independent in just one year , it wasnt a work in progress . Heres some "facts" to chew on , in 2019 I saw Trump up on a ladder changing the gas prices on the sign at the gas station , just last week I saw Biden up on a ladder changing the gas prices on the sign at the gas station...geezz

The political blame game must go on , it can not stop , it will not stop .

Do what you always do , youll get what you always got .  -- Posted by Diseased.  . Turtle on Mon, Oct 25, 2021, at  9:58 AM  

Turtle any facts to share why the citizens of our great country are chanting let’s go Brandon?  -- Posted by devil74 on Mon, Oct 25, 2021, at 10:58 AM  

devil, why dont you explain it to those that may not know what it represents. And we had discovered not_ sorry is an expert in another field. Except we had energy independence before Trump came on the scene. An oil expert on TV this morning said the gas prices is not limited to the USA but is word wide. Im gonna take his word on it instead of Dougs.  -- Posted by Michael Masterson on Mon, Oct 25, 2021, at 11:20 AM  we had energy independence before Trump came on the scene. -- Posted by Michael Masterson on Mon, Oct 25, 2021, at 11:20 AM

Yep.  Around 1930 we were energy independent. Another lie from the local democrat party leader.

===

An oil expert on TV this morning said the gas prices is not limited to the USA but is word wide.  -- Posted by Michael Masterson on Mon, Oct 25, 2021, at 11:20 AM

Duh.  Ill take his word as well.  Since Biden has made the largest consumer of oil dependent on the world supply now everyone in the world is paying the price for his decision to stop research and development of many US oil resources.

Try again partisan Masterson.  You failed.

  -- Posted by not_sorry on Mon, Oct 25, 2021, at 12:23 PM  devil74

Not a clue , is it something to do with gas prices . To be honest , I really dunno who Brandon is and really dont care . Is it a club or another cult thing ?

  -- Posted by Diseased.  . Turtle on Mon, Oct 25, 2021, at  1:53 PM  

Ok turtle people are cheering for Joe “Brandon” Biden because of his rising job approval!   -- Posted by devil74 on Mon, Oct 25, 2021, at  2:33 PM  

Thnx ! Thats a new one on my wrinkle ...  -- Posted by Diseased.  . Turtle on Mon, Oct 25, 2021, at  2:54 PM    Respond to this story

Posting a comment requires a subscription.  Follow this link to view our subscription options. If you have an account, follow this link to log in.                 More to explore   Local News 11/2/21   Proposed South Side Farms would bring urban farm, new housing to South Cape 5  Jimmy Wilferth had just bought $30,000 in gift cards at Ruler Foods grocery store when a question pervaded his thoughts: How could he help bring sustainable change to the south side of Cape Girardeau? The gift cards were for participants of Tiger...    Local News 11/2/21   City of Jackson aldermen vote to deny a special-use permit for Little Blessings day care 3  Reversing an earlier decision of the citys Planning and Zoning Commission, the Jackson Board of Aldermen on Monday decided unanimously by an 8-0 vote to reject a special-use permit that would have allowed Brian and Angela Powell to care for as many...    Local News 11/2/21   Cape Girardeau City Council gives initial OK to South Side Farms and Bloomfield Crossing projects 1  Cape Girardeau City Council gave first reading approval Monday to two projects promising an impact on economic development in the municipality — the South Side Farms proposal and the creation of a community improvement district (CID) establishing...    Local News 11/2/21   Free weather radios to be given away Saturday in Cape 1  Thanks to a $1,000 donation from Saint Francis Healthcare System, 36 weather radios will be given away free — one per household until theyre gone with a preference for Cape Girardeau County residents — at an event from noon until 6 p.m. Saturday at...    Local News 11/2/21   Cape Girardeau County sends personnel and equipment to tornado-stricken St. Mary  Cape Girardeau County Office of Emergency Management director Mark Winkler said the county sent personnel and equipment Thursday to St. Mary, Missouri, after an EF3 tornado ripped through the town Oct. 24. "Paul Koeper, 1st District County...    Most read 11/1/21   California man to launch new Mexican eatery in Cape Girardeau 2  Abelardos Mexican Fresh restaurant will open no later than Nov. 10 at 1740 Broadway in Cape Girardeau, according to owner and proprietor Jesus Flores. The previous eatery in that space, Mario and Angelas Italian Cucina, closed in July, with the...    Local News 11/1/21   Bicentennial mural creators sell replicas of painting at Painted Wren  More than 16,000 people from around the world contributed to Barb Bailey and Aaron Horrells collaborative mural commemorating Missouris bicentennial. Now, the two artists want to help those who contributed to the mural to keep a piece of it for...    Local News 11/1/21   East Cape bars to close earlier 2  A recent unanimous vote from the East Cape Girardeau (Illinois) Board of Trustees approved an ordinance for businesses with liquor licenses to close earlier. Beginning on the morning of Nov. 10, the Lone Star Saloon and The Pony, the only current...    Local News 11/1/21   SEMO exceeds COVID-19 vaccination goal, receives extended Thanksgiving break 4  Southeast Missouri State University president Carlos Vargas announced Friday the campus community exceeded its 70% COVID-19 vaccination goal. As a result, the university will be closed the week of Thanksgiving, Vargas said, as promised in an Aug. 26...    Most read 11/1/21   Kirbys buy Simply Swirled frozen treats store in Cape Girardeau 3  Dawn and Mike Kirby have bought Simply Swirled, 274 S. Mount Auburn Road in Cape Girardeau, assuming operations Oct. 18. The Kirbys already own Tys Summer Sno shaved ice shops in Cape Girardeau and Jackson. "We recently finished our fourth season...    Photo Gallery 11/1/21   Lynwood Baptist Church Trunk or Treat 2021  Lynwood Baptist Church in Cape Girardeau held the annual Halloween Trunk or Treat Sunday, Oct. 31, 2021, in the church parking lot.    Local News 11/1/21   Missouri teams push ballot measure to allow sports betting  JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. — Missouri sports teams are trying to put a proposal to legalize sports betting on the ballot, the St. Louis Post-Dispatch reported Friday.   A Jefferson City lawyer last week filed nine ballot proposals on the issue on behalf of...    Local News 10/31/21   PHOTOS: SEMO alums celebrate Homecoming weekend in style      Photo Gallery 10/31/21   SEMO Homecoming Tailgates 2021  Members of the Southeast Missouri State University and Cape Girardeau community tailgate prior to the start of the homecoming football game Saturday, Oct. 30, 2021, in Cape Girardeau.    Photo Gallery 10/31/21   SEMO Homecoming Parade 2021  Southeast Missouri State University held the homecoming parade Saturday, Oct. 30, 2021, in Cape Girardeau.    Local News 10/30/21   Stars and Stripes Museum to host Nov. 6 event in Cape  The Stars and Stripes Museum based in Bloomfield, MIssouri, will be celebrating the newspapers 160th anniversary this year through the second annual Spirit of Democracy Celebration and Dinner and Silent Auction in Cape Girardeau at the Osage Centre...    Local News 10/30/21   City Council to hold public hearing Monday on proposed CID 5  Cape Girardeau officials will hold a public hearing Monday for consideration of a 3.15-acre community improvement district (CID) off South Kingshighway. The proposed CID, Bloomfield Crossing Community Improvement District, resides at the northeast...    Local News 10/30/21   Goal met to honor vets at holiday  A community fundraising effort has raised enough money to place wreaths on veterans graves. The John Guild Chapter of the National Daughters of the American Revolution (NSDAR) has met its $18,000 fundraising goal to place wreaths on 1,200 graves of...    Local News 10/30/21   Cape Girardeau City Council agenda for 11-1-21  Cape Girardeau City Council 5 p.m. Monday City Hall 401 Independence St. Study session n No action will be taken during the study session Presentations Communications/reports n city council staff Items for discussion n Appearances by Advisory Board...    Local News 10/30/21   Jackson Board of Aldermen meeting for 11-1-21  City of Jackson mayor and Board of Aldermen Regular meeting 6 p.m. Monday Action items Power, Light, and Water Committee n Motion setting a public hearing for Monday, Dec. 20, 2021, at 6 p.m., to consider the proposed 2022 city of Jackson Annual...    Local News 10/30/21   Improvement district plan slated for public hearing  Cape Girardeau officials will hold a public hearing Monday for consideration of a 3.15-acre community improvement district (CID) off South Kingshighway. The proposed CID, Bloomfield Crossing Community Improvement District, resides at the northeast...    Local News 10/30/21   Man seriously hurt in crash in Scott County  SIKESTON, Mo. -- A 53-year-old man sustained serious injuries in a two vehicle accident at 4:43 p.m. Thursday, Oct. 28, at the intersection of U.S. Highway 60 and Highway FF. According to the Missouri State Highway Patrol, Ralph W. Weight, 63, of...    Local News 10/30/21   Cape Girardeau County Commission agenda for 11/1/21 meeting  Cape Girardeau County Commission 9 a.m. today 1 Barton Square, Jackson Approval of minutes n Minutes of stated meeting of Oct. 25, 2021 Communications/reports -- other elected officials n COVID-19 Update: In an effort to keep Cape Girardeau County...    Local News 10/29/21   Bollinger County authorities seek help in finding fugitive Davault 10  Authorities in Bollinger County, Missouri, are asking the public for information to locate a fugitive. According to a social media post from Sheriff Casey Graham, Robert "Robbie" Davault Jr. is wanted for unlawful use of a weapon and resisting...    Local News 10/29/21   Swan and Wallingford share views on state film tax credits 5  Swan and Wallingford discuss legislative hesitancy on extending Missouri tax credits for filmmaking Former Missouri Rep. Kathy Swan of Cape Girardeau, winner of a new film award Oct. 14 from the Missouri Division of Tourism, said Thursday the Show...    Local News 10/29/21   SEMO Bomb Squad moves to Cape Girardeau 5  Cape Girardeau Police Department is now the official parent agency of the Southeast Missouri (SEMO) Regional Bomb Squad. According to Cape Girardeau Chief of Police Wes Blair, Cape Girardeau Police Department assumed responsibility as parent agency...    Local News 10/29/21   Balloting set for Tuesday in some locales  Voters in some Southeast Missouri locales will decide tax issues in balloting Tuesday. Four communities -- Cape Girardeau, Jackson, Delta and Scott City -- will hold an election to determine whether to impose a use tax equal to the local sales tax...    Local News 10/29/21   Complaints and concerns addressed by team behind new Southeast website  The new Southeast Missouri State University website launched Oct. 6, just before fall break -- a decision meant to allow more time for faculty and staff to get acquainted with the website. When students discovered the change, a majority disliked the...    Local News 10/29/21   Sikeston man arrested for alleged DWI  A Sikeston, Missouri, man was taken into custody Thursday night for alleged driving while intoxicated. A Missouri State Highway Patrol report said Larry Smith, 69, was arrested at about 10 p.m. in Mississippi County. He was taken to the county jail...    Local News 10/29/21   Patrol arrests man for alleged DWI  A Charleston, Missouri, man was arrested Thursday afternoon on a variety of alleged offenses. According to a Missouri State Highway Patrol report, Tabatha Ivie, 44, was taken into custody in Scott County for alleged driving while intoxicated...    Most read 10/28/21   Missouri Attorney General helps Jackson man gain refund after lodging customer complaint 7  Darrel Adams of Jackson said he took his 2000 Ford Ranger XLT into a local automotive shop recently. "My truck was running really rough," he said. Adams had a vehicle service contract (VSC) for over a year with a company called CarShield, whom he...    Most read 10/27/21   Large interest shown in first filing day for Cape Girardeau City Council, mayor positions 1  Filing for mayor and City Council seats opened Tuesday and already 15 candidates have filed or picked up petitions to run for City Council or mayor of Cape Girardeau. Cape Girardeau City Clerk Gayle Conrad has worked in the city clerks office for...    Most read 10/27/21   Chaffee man injured  in Scott County crash  A Chaffee, Missouri, man sustained serious injuries in a one-vehicle crash Monday afternoon in Scott County. A Missouri State Highway Patrol report stated the crash occurred about 4:30 p.m. on Highway 77 south of Benton when a northbound 2002 Ford...    Most read 10/26/21   Dr. John Sheltons beautiful music and life well lived 9  Growing up the son of two music teachers, I was bound to learn piano. Years later as an adult, Im thankful that was the case. Part of my training as a youngster was participating in the National Federation of Junior Music Clubs Festival. Each year...                                             Sections  News Sports Business Events Community Opinion Obituaries Records Blogs  Shopping  Classifieds Homes SemoSearch Jobs  seMissourian.com  Search News archives Forums Your Stories Contact Us Terms of Service Commenting Guidelines Media Partners rustmedia  Services  Subscribe/register Customer Service Newsletters  E-Edition Text Alerts Mobile apps Facebook Twitter Instagram  Submit  Wedding Engagement Anniversary Letter to the Editor Paid Election Letter Speak Out Event Story / Photo Delisting request Classified ad  Shortcuts  Speak Out All headlines Weather Photo galleries Video Site Index    &copy; 2021 Southeast Missourian &middot; Cape Girardeau, Missouri Site Index &middot; Back to top                 