                                                                                            

Jialan Package - Paper bag company and gift bag manufacturer provides design and production services to meet all your needs.                                                                                                                                                                                         English                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;CONTACT US&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        	                                                                                &nbsp; | &nbsp;                                                  &nbsp; | &nbsp;                                                                &nbsp; | &nbsp;                                                                                                                                          			        	  	2021-01-25	                    	As billions of holiday packages made their way around the world during the 2020 holiday season, a post shared to social media in late December claimed that packages distributed by Amazon were sprayed with chemicals that may be harmful to pets.

A Dec. 27 Facebook post shared by the New York-based charity Uptown Cat Rescue warned pet owners that “ALL” boxes are sprayed with “toxic pesticides to kill wearouse [sic] rodents

Allegations involving packaging materials and pet illnesses around the holiday season are rare, but have surfaced before this one. Claims that sprayed-on chemicals could cause chemical burns in some pets circulated through social media in a variety of platforms and methods, including Reddit and Twitter. In particular, Snopes readers sent our team the below post shared by a woman named Debora Berger with the Facebook group Yorkie Lovers.

Berger told Snopes that she had contacted the original poster — a woman by the name of Alicia Plant — who first shared the pictures of her cat that had allegedly experienced chemical burns after licking Amazon boxes. Snopes subsequently contacted Plant, who confirmed that she had initially shared the photo to social media but had since deleted it.

“I don’t want to bash Amazon. I love Amazon and I have deleted my post bc of all the hate,” Plant told Snopes in a Facebook message. “Amazon and I have been in contact and I do not wish to speak about it as it is being handled by them. Have a nice day.”

In an interview with Snopes, Amazon spokesperson Leah Seay said that the company does not have a policy of spraying their packaging boxes with any sort of rodenticide or insecticide.

“Boxes aren’t sprayed for any reason. If somewhere down the supply chain are they sprayed? The answer to that is no,” said Seay. “Corrugated boxes are made of wood pulp and wood pulp binders, which is basically what all manufacturers make their boxes out of. So, we don’t have special boxes. They are essentially the same thing that every other manufacturer uses.”

Corrugated cardboard boxes are made of paper and represent one of the most recycled products in the United States, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. Garbage and recycling service provider Waste Management noted that corrugated shipping boxes like those used by Amazon are made of recycled materials or lumber industry byproducts, such as sawdust. When recycled, cardboard materials are re-pulped, separated, bleached, and screened and cleaned to eliminate contaminants.

In 2019, it was estimated that Amazon shipped around 2.5 billion packages around the world every year. But during the 2020 novel coronavirus pandemic, Amazon upped its global shipping fleet and expanded its shipping flight activity by at least 30% since April 2020, according to a report published in September by the Chicago-based Chaddick Institute for Metropolitan Development.


          			                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      		          	                                                                                                                             

                                                                                               	  	

QUICK LINKS  	  	  	                                                            	  	

ABOUT US  	  	  	                                                                         	  	

CONTACT US  	  	  	Contact Person : Miss Gloria Bao

Tel : +86-579-85792908

E-mail : sales1@jialanpackage.com

Wechat : +86-18757869290
 Whatsapp :+86-18757869290                                                                                                                                                                            

Copyright © 2021 Yiwu Jialan Package Co, LTD. | All Rights Reserved                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           	 		 	    	 	  	 		 			 		 		Chat Online  		编辑模式下无法使用 	 	 		 			 			Chat Online  			inputting... 		 		 			 				 				 					 						 					 					 						 							 							 						 						 							 							 						 						  						 					 				 			 			 				 					  					Thank you for your enquiry. We will get back to you ASAP  					

We are here to help you! If you close the chatbox, you will automatically receive a response from us via email. Please be sure to leave your contact details so that we can better assist 						 							*Name： 							 						 						 							*Phone： 							 						 						 							*E-mail： 							 						 						 							*Content： 							 						 							 							Send Inquiry Now 							  					 				 			 		 	 	 	 	                                           