  Skip to main content          Editions   Chinese   Spanish   French   Italian   Japanese      About Vision Times   Donate   Newsletter                                Online Newspaper           Home   News   Politics   Society   Economy   Health   Human Rights   Analysis      US   Politics   Foreign Policy   New York      China   China Insights   Chinese Culture   Hong Kong   Taiwan      World   Americas   Asia-Pacific   South Asia   Europe   Africa      Culture   Arts   Traditions   Wisdom      Life   Wellness   Mind &amp; Spirit   Gardening   Entertainment      Tech   Innovation   Industry      Nature   Environment   Mysteries   Space      Disasters   Newsletter         Toggle Menu                           Home     News     US     China     World     Culture     Life     Tech     Nature     Disasters     Newsletter          

Home &raquo;  US &raquo;  Leaked Pfizer Executive Emails Confirm Aborted Fetal Tissue Used in COVID Vaccine Testing    Leaked Pfizer Executive Emails Confirm Aborted Fetal Tissue Used in COVID Vaccine Testing   By Author:     Neil Campbell     October 6, 2021   30,620   0      Share this post:Share on  Twitter Share on  Facebook Share on  Pinterest Share on  LinkedIn Share on  Email               A photo of the Pfizer logo in Puurs, Belgium. Emails from Pfizer executives leaked to Project Veritas confirm that the company is using human embryonic kidney cells in its COVID-19 mRNA vaccine testing program. (Image: JOHN THYS/AFP via Getty Images)     A new Pfizer whistleblower has come forward with copies of an email chain involving two high level company executives confirming that cell lines that derive from an aborted fetus have been used in the company’s COVID-19 vaccine testing program.

In an Oct. 6 piece published by Project Veritas,  Melissa Strickler, a Quality Auditor who worked in Pfizer’s McPherson, Kansas plant, leaked emails from Vanessa Gelman, Senior Director of Worldwide Research, Development, and Medical Communication and Philip Dormitzer, Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer of Viral Vaccines showing the officers confirming human embryonic kidney cells are used in the company’s testing program.

Read More: Trio of Pfizer Scientists Expose Corporate Culture, Virtues of Natural ImmunityHHS Whistleblower Alleges COVID Vaccine Side Effects Common, UnderreportedOn Hidden Camera, FDA Employee Says Blow Darts Should Be Used to Force Vaccinate Blacks, Low IQ WhitesUndercover Video Shows J&amp;J Scientist Calling for ‘Second Grade Citizens’ Through Vaccine Passports

Strickler claims to have accidentally discovered the emails in an internal Pfizer database.

Fetal tissue confirmed in laboratory testing

In an email dated February 4, 2021, Gelman was asked by Advait Badkar, who is listed as a “Senior Director” on his LinkedIn profile, “This question came in as an enquiry to our Med Info group…’Did Pfizer make use of a cell line from an aborted foetus when carrying out any confirmatory tests for this vaccine?’”

Badkar added, “This is AFTER we had already confirmed with the customer that no cell lines from an aborted foetus were used in the manufacturing process of the COVID-19 mRNA Vaccine BNT162b2.”

Gelman responded, “We have been trying as much as possible not to mention the fetal cell lines,” providing an additional paragraph that was half in red, and half in yellow. The piece in yellow, Gelman said, “We have tried really hard not to share unless it’s strictly necessary and mission critical.”

The red portion was consistent with Badkar’s original email, “Human fetal derived cell lines are not used to produce our investigational vaccine, which consists of synthetic and enzymatically produced components.”

But the yellow portion contained the admission, “One or more cell lines with an origin that can be traced back to human fetal tissue has been used in laboratory tests associated with the vaccine program.” Email exchange from Vanessa Gelman, Pfizer Director of Worldwide Research, Development, and Medical Communication admitting human embryonic cells are used in the company’s vaccine development program. (Image: Screenshot via YouTube Video)

Later in the email chain, a second Pfizer executive, Philip Dormitzer, Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer of Viral Vaccines, confirmed, “HEK293T [Human Embryonic Kidney] cells, used for the IVE assay, are ultimately derived from an aborted fetus.”&nbsp;

“On the other had, the Vatican doctrinal committee has confirmed that they consider it acceptable for Pro-Life believers to be immunized.”

Dormitzer added, “Pfizer’s official statement couches the answer well and is what should be provided in response to an outside inquiry.”

The next day on Feb. 5, Gelman followed up in the chain, wanting to confirm with Badkar and several other staffers where the request originated in order to insure it was not from a “member of the public,” because Gelman “just want[ed] to make sure we are responding to a legitimate request that may ignite a FB campaign on this that we may ultimately need to manage.”

On Feb. 9, Gelman reiterated to the now-dozen Pfizer employees who have been brought into the email chain that the information on aborted babies being used in vaccine testing was extremely sensitive to Pfizer’s public relations, “From the perspective of corporate affairs, we want to avoid having the information on the fetal cells floating out there.”

“In this heated environment of heightened scrutiny on every detail on our vaccine, we would like to avoid the opportunity of creating an issue &#8211; we believe that the risk of communicating this right now outweighs any potential benefit we could see, particularly with members of the general public who may take this information and use it in ways we may not want it out there.”

“We have not received any questions from policy makers or media on this issue in the last few weeks, so we want to avoid raising this, if possible.” A blackout

In a second case provided by the whistleblower, she filmed an instance where windows in “manufacturing rooms” and “group lead offices” inside the Kansas plant had been blacked out, allegedly in advance of a visit by the Food and Drug Administration.

“I could not believe that they were blacking out windows down in our manufacturing rooms,” said Strickler.

“They tell us, you know, that you should make sure you can be seen at all times for integrity purposes&#8230;and so when I saw they were blacking out windows in group lead offices and unoccupied fill rooms, I thought it was odd.”

Strickler says she raised the issue with a member of Pfizer’s Aseptic Quality department and was told, “Well, the FDA is coming.” The light of conscience

Project Veritas frontman James O’Keefe asked Strickler why she stepped forward, “I felt it was the right thing to do. I feel like I had no one else to turn to within my own company who would be honest with me.”

“What was troubling to me was they were wanting to keep it under wraps. They didn’t really want the information out there that they were using the HEK [Human Embryonic Kidney] cells to do the study.”

When asked why she thought Pfizer was trying to cover up the use of fetal tissue in experiments, Strickler said she is of the opinion that it was all about not letting religious reasons be used for mandatory vaccination exemptions, “They don’t want to stir up a mess. They don’t want to have to deal with people who are upset, because I think people can use religious exemptions for it, and they don’t want that.”&nbsp;

“I think they want nobody to have an excuse to not get it&#8230;And they’re denying our religious exemptions at Pfizer.”

She continued, “It shouldn’t be political, but they’re making it political. The media and the government is making it political. But this isn’t about Republican, Democrat, liberal, or conservative. This is informed consent on injecting something inside of you from a company that’s called it an experimental vaccine.”&nbsp;

“This is about when you see something that’s being done that you don’t think is right and exposing it.”

O’Keefe asked the woman whether she was afraid of retaliation for stepping forward. In response, she said what she was most concerned about was the coming wave of mandatory injections for children, “A little bit. I have faith that I will be protected or whatever the outcome is is what it’s supposed to be. I’m at peace with it. I’m a little anxious on what they’ll do or what they’ll say, but it needs to be seen by the people because they’re trying to get this to kids.”

“And if they’re being this deceptive about it, I don’t feel comfortable being silent while they’re trying to give it to babies who can’t talk.”

In closing, Strickler had a message for her soon-to-be former employer, “You guys are very adamant about integrity and making sure that things are done right and that things are always double checked. But I’m just one person, one face of many of your employees who are willing to fight this and reveal to the world what’s going on.”&nbsp;

“And all we want is for you to be transparent and honest with us and do the right thing.”    Neil Campbell

Neil lives in Canada and writes about society and politics.

  View all posts                  RELATED NEWS   Tesla Recalls 2,800+ Vehicles With Front Suspension Manufacturing Defects            FCC Revokes China Telecom’s US License, Citing Potential Threat to National Security           FBI Raids Chinese Tech Company in Florida Following Unusual Technical Behaviors           Miles Yu: To Defend Taiwan is to Defend American Democracy                   TOP STORIES  Leaked Pfizer Executive Emails Confirm Aborted Fetal Tissue Used in COVID Vaccine Testing           Trio of Pfizer Scientists Expose Surveillance and Profit-driven Corporate Culture, Virtues of Natural           Twitter Labels Obituary of 37-Year-Old Seattle Mother Who Died From COVID Vaccine Blood Clots ‘Misleading           ‘No Discernable Relationship’ Between Vaccination Rate and New COVID-19 Cases Across 68 Countries: Study           71 Percent of COVID Diagnoses, 60 Percent of Hospitalizations are Vaccine Breakthroughs: Defense Department              MOST POPULAR  Leaked Pfizer Executive Emails Confirm Aborted Fetal Tissue Used in COVID Vaccine Testing           Trio of Pfizer Scientists Expose Surveillance and Profit-driven Corporate Culture, Virtues of Natural           Twitter Labels Obituary of 37-Year-Old Seattle Mother Who Died From COVID Vaccine Blood Clots ‘Misleading           Iceland Halts use of Moderna Vaccine for all Ages Citing Health Concerns           ‘No Discernable Relationship’ Between Vaccination Rate and New COVID-19 Cases Across 68 Countries: Study           US Attorneys Preparing Argument That Natural Immunity Is Valid Exemption from Vaccine Mandate              LOAD MORE              EDITIONS   Chinese   Spanish   French   Italian   Japanese     COMPANY   About   Contact   Advertise    Submissions     INFO   Privacy Policy   Terms of Service   Copyright Policy and Infringement Notification     POPULAR CATEGORY   US   China   World   Politics   Human Rights       About Us Vision Times tells the world everything about China in todays context. We keep a close eye on China because of its influence now and the lessons we can learn from its ancient past to better our lives today.   Follow Us                    This website uses cookies

We inform you that this site uses own, technical and third parties cookies to make sure our web page is user-friendly and to guarantee a high functionality of the webpage. By continuing to browse this website, you declare to accept the use of cookies.  Ok         