Open Navigation Menu MenuStory Saved

To revist this article, visit My Profile, then . Close Alert CloseStory Saved

To revist this article, visit My Profile, then . Close Alert Close2024  Can we get that commitment in writing? 

By    October 14, 2021 U.S. President Donald Trump, left, speaks to members of the media next to U.S. First Lady Melania Trump before boarding Marine One on the South Lawn of the White House in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Wednesday, Jan. 20, 2021. Trump departs Washington with Americans more politically divided and more likely to be out of work than when he arrived, while awaiting trial for his second impeachment - an ignominious end to one of the most turbulent presidencies in American history. Photographer: Al Drago/Bloomberg via Getty Images Bloomberg If you’ve lived through the last five years and haven’t been forced to medicate yourself to the point of unconsciousness, you’re probably aware that Donald Trump has been very bad for society, on account of the  and the  and the  and the ,  . Because of that, it would be ideal if neither the 45th president nor his acolytes sat at the seat of power ever again, though, unfortunately, that’s no sure thing. For one thing, Republicans have a shot at flipping the Senate in 2022, and there are a disturbing number of GOP lawmakers there whom Trump has   . For another, Trump is  “laying the groundwork” for a 2024 run, and if you recall, 74 million people  for him in 2020, which wasn’t enough to actually win but was a disturbing number nevertheless.

Obviously also at issue is that since Trump lost to Joe Biden, Republicans have responded by attempting to disenfranchise as many Democratic voters as possible. Allies of the former guy have been  to meddle in future elections by passing bills that “allow Republican-controlled state legislatures or election boards to sideline or override local election administrations in Democratic strongholds,” which would, per The Atlantic, let state legislatures or their appointees interfere “in local decision-making, purge voter rolls, and manipulate the number and location of polling places. It would also allow Republicans in Arizona, Georgia, and elsewhere to do something Trump tried and failed to do in 2020: throw out ballots in rival strongholds in order to overturn a statewide result.” Which is bone-chillingly terrifying.

But you know what would be great? If somehow we could wave a magic wand and ensure that none of the people who support Trump or Trump-endorsed candidates show up to vote, which would be a tremendous turn of events for humanity, though one that would clearly never happen unless—what? What’s that you say? Donald Trump has, in an incredible self-own, told his base to stay home and not vote in the next two elections?Twitter content

Setting aside for a moment the idea of Trump instructing millions of people not to vote, which would have the obvious effect of helping the other side, it’s important to note that Trump is still—still!—clinging to the idea that the 2020 election was stolen and there is a chance it could be overturned and he could be “” at the White House. That’s extremely scary because, in case anyone missed it the first thousand times, there is absolutely zero evidence that fraud played a role in the last election, despite multiple attempts by conservatives to conduct “audits” of results in battleground states, which have thus far .

Nevertheless, we absolutely love the idea of Trump throwing a hissy fit and saying, “Oh yeah? You won’t overturn Joe Biden’s win? My people will show you!” First, because it underscores how very, very stupid he is, and second, because he and his allies have done this in the past and it predictably worked out great for Democrats.

As the Daily Beast :

After prominent Trump supporters similarly told Georgia Republicans to sit out the two runoffs in that state late last year, calling it “another rigged election,” voters ended up giving Democrats control of the Senate.

As Kentucky-based GOP strategist Scott Jennings  Politico in January, “That’s on [Trump]. He told them their votes didn’t count, and some of them listened.”

In a sad attempt to spin Trump’s directive as the exact opposite of what he said, GOP rally organizer John Fredericks  The Washington Post he thought Trump was simply warning voters that they need to get more involved to safeguard future elections, an explanation we’re sure the ex-president will blow up by clarifying that no, he specifically meant for people to stay home.

If you would like to receive the Levin Report in your inbox daily, click  to subscribe.More Great Stories From Vanity Fair       

— How Sarah Everard’s Murder Revealed 
—  for Trying to Overturn the Election in Georgia
— Congressman Adam Schiff Describes 
— Surprise:  for Trump’s Disastrous COVID Address
— Inside a Father’s Desperate Quest to 
—  May Be…Conor Lamb
— Cori Bush Is Ready to 
— Jared and Ivanka Fancy Themselves the 
— From the Archive:  That Brought Down the Gucci Dynasty
— Not a subscriber?  to receive full access to VF.com and the complete online archive now. is a politics correspondent at Vanity Fair.Get the Hive NewsletterThe freshest-and most essential-updates from Washington, Wall Street, and Silicon Valley.Enter your e-mail addressSign Up  

By signing up you agree to our  and . Read MoreLevin Report 

By    Levin Report 

By    Unlucky Stars 13 slides

By    

More from Vanity Fair 

Contact 

© 2021 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  and  and  Vanity Fair may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. 

CN EntertainmentSelect international site United States LargeChevron 