Skip to main content WorldBusinessLegal MarketsMoreSign In Register Menu October 6, 2021 12:37 PM UTC Last Updated  ago Sports Player charged with attempted murder after attacking refereeReuters2 minute read SAO PAULO, Oct 6 (Reuters) - A Brazilian soccer player has been charged with attempted murder after he brutally kicked a referee in the head during a lower league game in the south of the country.

The player, William Ribeiro of Sport Club Sao Paulo, attacked the referee after he awarded a foul against him during a league game away to Guarani on Monday.

The game was halted 14 minutes into the second half while referee Rodrigo Crivellaro was taken to hospital. He was later released.

&quot;I decided... to charge the lad with attempted murder because in my perception of the case he took the risk of (inflicting) a lethal outcome,&quot; the officer in charge of the case told Brazilian portal UOL.

The attack took place on Sport Club Sao Paulo&#x27;s 113th anniversary.

The club called the incident &quot;one of the saddest in its history&quot; and said it had summarily fired Ribeiro and was examining what further action it might take.

The small club from Rio Grande, a city of around 200,000 people approximately 320km south of the state capital Porto Alegre, play in the second division of the Rio Grande do Sul state championship.

Monday&#x27;s match was halted and restarted a day later with Guarani winning 1-0, the state football federation said.Reporting by Andrew Downie Editing by Christian Radnedge

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.More from ReutersSign up for our newsletter

Subscribe for our daily curated newsletter to receive the latest exclusive Reuters coverage delivered to your inbox.Sign up BrowseWorld Business Legal Markets Breakingviews Technology Investigations Lifestyle About ReutersAbout Reuters Careers Reuters News Agency Brand Attribution Guidelines Reuters Leadership Reuters Fact Check Reuters Diversity Report Stay InformedDownload the App Newsletters Information you can trust

Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to professionals via desktop terminals, the world&#x27;s media organizations, industry events and directly to consumers.Follow UsThomson Reuters ProductsWestlaw

Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology.Onesource

The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs.Checkpoint

The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals.Refinitiv ProductsEikon

Information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets - delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface.Refinitiv Data Platform

Access to real-time, reference, and non-real time data in the cloud to power your enterprise.World-Check

Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.Advertise With Us Advertising Guidelines Cookies Terms of Use Privacy Corrections Site Feedback

All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.

© 2021 Reuters. All rights reserved