         Fort Collins Coloradoan You know how you shouldnt trust everything you read on social media?

Well, heres one that went viral on what to do with your cellphone if you find yourself lost or stranded.

The post has been shared more than 5,000 times on Facebook and has been making the rounds on Instagram, TikTok and other platforms.

The post advises people who become lost or stranded while their cellphone has little juice or no signal to change their cellphone voicemail to include their approximate location, time, date and situation (lost, out of gas, car broken down, injured, etc.) and any special instructions such as if you are staying with your vehicle or walking for help.

It also includes: "The best part of this is that even if your cell phone dies or stops working, voicemail still works, so anyone calling your phone looking for you will hear the message and know where to find you or where to send help.

The post may be well-meaning, but its cringeworthy given the advice is not sound, search and rescue organizations say.

, based in Evergreen, shared on its Facebook page why the advice is incorrect and what to do if you find yourself in this situation:

"Without a signal (connection to the cell system) YOU CANT CHANGE YOUR VOICEMAIL," the post points out. "The voicemail system resides with your cell provider. To change your outgoing message, you have to CALL into your voicemail and then navigate the menus, record a new greeting, confirm the new greeting, etc. YOU CANNOT DO THIS WITH NO SIGNAL."

"If your battery is low, do not waste power by calling your voicemail — or a friend or relative," the search and rescue group wrote. "Call 9-1-1 for help."

"If you have no signal, text for help to 9-1-1," Alpine Search and Rescue advised. "Many, if not most, 9-1-1 centers can receive a text."

Larimer County Search and Rescue added that you should be as succinct as possible but make sure to include your name, information on injuries, location and any other critical information. The shorter the message, the less data connection is needed for it to push through the cell network.

"Text takes much less power, is far more likely to get through, will automatically retry many times if you have spotty service, leaves a record others can see and can give you an indication that it got thru," Alpine Search and Rescue said in its post. "Because of the automatic retries, you can compose and hit send on a text and then get your phone as high as possible to improve the chances of getting the message out."

Dont change locations after calling for help, the search and rescue group said. The exception? If you need to move for safety reasons. 

"Changing your location makes our job more difficult," according to the post. "Trying to reach someone whose GPS location we have (within a circle, of course) is faster for us than trying to nail down a moving target."

"Maximize battery life," Alpine Search and Rescue said in the posts final tip. "In order to make the battery last longer, turn off everything you do not need. Close all apps. Turn off WiFi and Bluetooth. Dont use your cell phone as a GPS/map device and especially do not use the compass if your phone has one — the compass feature in some phones is a serious battery drain. Pull out your map and compass and/or use a dedicated GPS unit. You may be instructed, by text, to turn your phone off and text back at a specific time. Also, keep your phone just a little warm with some body heat or a handwarmer."

Reporter Miles Blumhardt looks for stories that impact your life. Be it news, outdoors, sports — you name it, he wants to report it. Have a story idea? Contact him at  or on Twitter @MilesBlumhardt. Support his work and that of other Coloradoan journalists by purchasing a digital subscription today.            Do Not Sell My Info / Cookie Policy                         © 2021 www.coloradoan.com. All rights reserved.