                 ABC News VideoLiveShowsCoronavirus      LOG INInterest Successfully Added We&#x27;ll notify you here with news aboutTurn on desktop notifications for breaking stories about interest?  Off On   Customers can soon rent a Tesla at Hertz after company orders 100,000 electric vehicles

Teslas stock soared to new heights on news of the massive order.By Catherine Thorbecke  October 25, 2021, 8:13 PM•  5 min readShare to Facebook Share to Twitter Email this article 2:15

Tesla surpasses $1 trillion valuationThe electric automaker hit the trillion-dollar market cap after announcing a deal with Hertz to supply the rental car company with 100,000 Tesla Model 3s by the end of next year.   John Thys/AFP via Getty Images, FILE Rental car giant Hertz announced it was buying 100,000 Tesla electric vehicles that will be available to customers starting next month.

Tesla stock soared on news of the massive order, and its market cap hit the $1 trillion milestone during intraday trading Monday, a feat very few U.S. companies have attained. MORE: Google, YouTube won&#x27;t allow ads or monetization of content denying climate change

The announcement also comes just months after Hertz emerged from bankruptcy, after the COVID-19 pandemic gutted the travel and rental car industry in 2020.

In addition to the initial order of 100,000 Teslas by the end of 2022, Hertz also announced it was adding new electric vehicle charging infrastructure at outposts across its global operations. Eric Gaillard/Reuters, FILE The desk of car rental company Hertz is seen at Nice International airport in Nice, France, May 27, 2020.

Starting in early November, the company said customers will be able to rent a Tesla Model 3 at Hertz airport and neighborhood locations in major U.S. markets and select cities in Europe. It will offer digitized guidance to educate customers about the electric vehicles, and soon hopes to offer an expedited electric vehicle rental booking process through its app.

"Electric vehicles are now mainstream, and weve only just begun to see rising global demand and interest," Hertz interim CEO Mark Fields said in a statement Monday. MORE: Over 200 companies pledge net-zero emissions by 2040 as pressure on private sector mounts

"The new Hertz is going to lead the way as a mobility company, starting with the largest EV rental fleet in North America and a commitment to grow our EV fleet and provide the best rental and recharging experience for leisure and business customers around the world," Fields added.

The company said it was the first U.S. car rental company to introduce electric vehicles to its rental fleet in 2011 and that with the current order, electric vehicles will comprise more than 20% of Hertz global fleet. David Zalubowski/AP, FILE This July 8, 2018 photo shows Tesla 2018 Model 3 sedans sit on display outside a Tesla showroom in Littleton, Colo.

Hertz is teaming up with seven-time Super Bowl champion Tom Brady on an ad campaign about its new electric vehicle fleet.

"Although the company has been around for over 100 years, their constant evolution, especially now, is something that is amazing to be a part of," Brady said in a statement. "Ive been driving an EV for years and knowing Hertz is leading the way with their electric fleet speaks to how the world is changing and the way companies are approaching being environmentally and socially conscious. Ive always loved how easy and convenient Hertz makes it for me when Im traveling to my favorite places like New York, LA and Tampa and cant wait to see what they continue to have in store."

The move comes amid mounting pressure on the private sector and beyond to take action on climate change. The transportation sector generated the largest share of greenhouse gas emissions in 2019, per the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, primarily from burning fossil fuels for cars, trucks, ships, trains and planes.Comments (0 )Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Email this article Top StoriesVirginia&#x27;s 2021 gubernatorial election results Nov 02, 6:04 AMNew Jersey&#x27;s 2021 gubernatorial election results Nov 02, 6:06 AMKyle Rittenhouse trial begins: Key takeaways from Day 13 hours agoThe national implications of Virginia&#x27;s gubernatorial electionNov 02, 5:03 AMKyle Rittenhouse trial begins: Key takeaways from Day 13 hours agoABC News Live

24/7 coverage of breaking news and live events ABC News NetworkPrivacy PolicyYour CA Privacy RightsChildren&#x27;s Online Privacy PolicyInterest-Based AdsAbout Nielsen MeasurementTerms of UseDo Not Sell My InfoContact UsCopyright © 2021 ABC News Internet Ventures. All rights reserved.                                                