                                                                                                                       	 	 		 			   				  					  					An official website of the United States government   					           			   						 							       							         									

The .gov means it’s official.
Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure youre on a federal government site. 								     							       							       							         							        

The site is secure.
 The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. 							         							       						 					  				 			  			 							  					        	 				                     				 							 						 							 							 								 									Search FDA 									 									  									 									 										 										Submit search    									   								 							 														 														 											  			  							 						 							 							 						 					  					                                                                                                                                                 					 	              	                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            	                                                                                                                                                                       October 29, 2021: The FDA expands emergency use authorization of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine to include children 5 through 11 years of age. Read the  and watch the . 	     	 	  October 20, 2021: The FDA expands authorizations for COVID-19 vaccine booster doses for eligible populations who received the Pfizer-BioNTech or Moderna COVID-19 Vaccine and for Janssen COVID-19 Vaccine recipients 18 and older.  Read the  and listen to the .

On August 23, 2021, the FDA approved the first COVID-19 vaccine. The vaccine has been known as the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine, and will now be marketed as , for the prevention of COVID-19 disease in individuals 16 years of age and older.

The vaccine also continues to be available under emergency use authorization (EUA), including for individuals 5 years of age and older, for the administration of a third dose in certain immunocompromised people, and for a single booster dose in people:

On October 20, 2021, the FDA authorized the use of a heterologous (or “mix and match”) booster dose in eligible populations with currently available (i.e., FDA-authorized or approved) COVID-19 vaccines. Therefore, Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine recipients falling into one of the authorized categories for boosters may receive  the Moderna COVID-19 Vaccine (half dose), Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine or Janssen COVID-19 Vaccine and should be given at least six months after completing the primary vaccination.

               Translations of the Pfizer-BioNTech Fact Sheet for Recipients and Caregivers
  

 

 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                