  		     	  		  			  				 					 				  				 					  	 		 		 			 				 				Search  			 		 	  				  				 					 						 						 					 				  			  		  	  	  	 		  			 				 			  			 				 					 				  			 				 					 				  			 				 					 				  			 				 					 				  			 				 					 				  			 				 					 				  			 				 					 				  			 				 					 				  			 				 					 				  			 		 	       		 			 				 			 			 		 		  	 		 			 				     		 	 									 					 				 												 					 				 											  	  		  			 								  											 							 						 					 				 			  						 				 			  		 	  				

Rumors and questionable claims we have researched recently.  					  	    		  		 			   	  	 	 		 		  			  				  				 			  						 		  		 	  	  		 			Are People Receiving Vaccines With More Ingredients Than FDA Approved?		   		 					 				Allegedly, shots contained more than double the ingredients federal regulators OK&#039;d.			  		 				 		 	  	       	  	 	 		 		  			  				  				 			  						 		  		 	  	  		 			Does Photo Show an 1895 Car Crash Involving the Only 2 Cars in Ohio?		   		 					 				Photographs certainly don&#039;t show this alleged automobile accident (which most likely never happened).			  		 				 		 	  	       	  	 	 		 		  			  				  				 			  						 		  		 	  	  		 			Is This a Monument to Michelle Obama’s Former Slave Ancestor?		   		 					 				Melvinia Shields was the first Black first lady’s ancestor.			  		 				 		 	  	       	  	 	 		 		  			  				  				 			  						 		  		 	  	  		 			Does Vid Show Biden Dozing off at Climate Change Summit?		   		 					 				The clip supposedly showed the president sitting as an audience member with his eyes closed.			  		 				 		 	  	       	  	 	 		 		  			  				  				 			  						 		  		 	  	  		 			Did Biden Poop His Pants in Rome?		   		 					 				Another president, another pants pooping rumor.			  		 				 		 	  	       	  	 	 		 		  			  				  				 			  						 		  		 	  	  		 			Did Persian King Order His Servants Killed, Only They Killed Him?		   		 					 				Rather foolishly, he let them roam free before their execution.			  		 				 		 	  	       	  	 	 		 		  			  				  				 			  						 		  		 	  	  		 			Does This Video Show Two Fluids Becoming ‘Unmixed’?		   		 					 				The concept appears to defy nature.			  		 				 		 	  	       	  	 	 		 		  			  				  				 			  						 		  		 	  	  		 			Did Failed Constitutional Amendments Include Ban on Divorce, &#8216;United States of the Earth&#8217;?		   		 					 				Since 1789, there have been more than 11,000 proposals to change the U.S. Constitution. Some...			  		 				 		 	  	       	  	 	 		 		  			  				  				 			  						 		  		 	  	  		 			What We Know About the Breast Cancer Vaccine		   		 					 				Is prevention in our future?			  		 				 		 	  	       	  	 	 		 		  			  				  				 			  						 		  		 	  	  		 			Did PETA Ask MLB to Rename Bullpen ‘Arm Barn’?		   		 					 				The animal rights organization claims that the word has “speciesist roots.”			  		 				 		 	  	       	  	 	 		 		  			  				  				 			  						 		  		 	  	  		 			Are These &#8216;Hallowieners&#8217; a Genuine Product?		   		 					 				Sorry to disappoint all of you black licorice-flavored hot dog fans.			  		 				 		 	  	       	  	 	 		 		  			  				  				 			  						 		  		 	  	  		 			Was This Victorian-Era Contraption Meant To Keep Vampires in Their Graves?		   		 					 				In reality, these &quot;mortsafes,&quot; as they were called, were designed to thwart grave robbers, not...			  		 				 		 	  	     		 	  	  	 	  		  	    			 		 		 					 			 				 			 			 		 		 	  		 			Top Fact Checks 		  		  			   	  	 	 		 		  			  				  				 			  						 		  		 	  	  		 			Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla Was Not Arrested		   		 		 		 	  	       	  	 	 		 		  			  				  				 			  						 		  		 	  	  		 			Did Biden Poop His Pants in Rome?		   		 		 		 	  	       	  	 	 		 		  			  				  				 			  						 		  		 	  	  		 			Day of the Dead Drone Art?		   		 		 		 	  	       	  	 	 		 		  			  				  				 			  						 		  		 	  	  		 			Did Japan Halt COVID-19 Vax Rollout Due to Ivermectin Success?		   		 		 		 	  	       	  	 	 		 		  			  				  				 			  						 		  		 	  	  		 			The Multiple Falsehoods of &#8216;Patriot Purge&#8217;		   		 		 		 	  	     		  		 			 		  	  	 		 			 				 			 			 		 				 	         	  		  			 				 			  		  		 												 					

Company 						 				 																 				 																 				 																 				 																 				 																						 					 					 					

Navigate 						 				 																 				 																 				 																 				 																 				 																						 					 					 					

Sections 						 				 																 				 																 				 																 				 																 				 									 				 							 			

Account 				 					 					 					 				 			 		  		 			 				 					 					 					 					 				 			 		  		  			 				 © 1995 - 2021  by Snopes Media Group Inc.

This material may not be reproduced without permission.

Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com 	 		 		 		 		 					 			  			  		  	  	      	 		close × 		 	   	 	 		 			 				 					 					Main Menu  				 				 					 						 						Close Main Menu  					  				 			 			 				 					 											 											 											 											 											 											 										 					 				  			 		 	 	  	 		 			 				  	 		 		 			 				 				Search  			 		 	  				Search Snopes 			 		 	  		 			 				 			 			 		 		     	